6/15/94

Andrew Johnson
Computer Science Department
Wayne State University
Detroit, MI 48202
[NOTE: Andy is now at the Electronic Visualization Lab at UIC]

[OpenGL & FreeVR ports by Bill Sherman (thus far), 2005]


[NOTE: for the moment you'll have to set the directory that
contains the FreeVR library in the Makefile.  Then ...]

Type "make" to make the application ("sandbox").  If necessary, it
should also compile the hershey font library (ie. the first time you
compile things).

To run the program just type "sandbox".  If any of the datafile are
not found the program will abort the load.  However, all the data
should be included in this distribution.


Once the demo is running and you are in the environment the wand buttons
have the following uses:
	left button: not used
	middle button: grab/drop an instrument, select from menus
	right button: activate/deactivate options, turn menus on/off
A 3D cross shows the position of the wand.

All of the button operations in this demo are simple clicks, no clicking
and holding the button down.


The left wall has a calendar. Moving the wand over to the calendar will
highlight specific days. The middle button selects/desects days. The current
virtual day (shown in red) cycles through the set of currently selected
days (shown in blue.)  The application begins with some dates pre-selected.


On the right side of the front wall is the instrument pallet. Moving the
wand over to the instrument pallet will highlight specific instruments.
The middle button selects (grabs) an instrument. With an instrument in hand
all of the sights where that instrument can be placed are highlighted in
yellow.  Moving the wand over one of those sites turns the site red. Pressing
the middle Button again then drops the instrument onto that site. Similarly
The middle button can be used to pick up an instrument from a highlighted site.

The instruments are (in order)
	Thermometer	Satellite	No Instrument
	Wind Sock	Airplane	Paper/Pencil
	Beaker		Helicopter	Camera


The left side of the front wall shows the user's position and the wand's
position in the cave as well as a graph of the past 6 hours worth of
measurements from the instruments.  Depending on the speed of the machine
this demo is being run on, the hours may be zipping by pretty quickly.


The user can also move the wand over to the sun or moon to select it
and activate its menu using the right button. This allows the user to
alter the behaviour of time by clicking on the appropriate square button
using the middle button of the wand.  The right button then dismisses the menu.

Moving the wand near the plane and clicking the right button will bring up
the menu for the plane. This allows the user to alter the appearance of the
plane by clicking on the appropriate square button using the middle button
of the wand.  The right button then dismisses the menu.

If the user places the satellite instrument into the sky the user can
activate its menu by highlighting the satellite and clicking the right
button.  This allows the user to change which satellite image is overlayed
on the plane by clicking on the appropriate square button using the middle
button of the wand.  The right button then dismisses the menu.

IF the user moves the wand over an instrument on the plane (highlighting
the site), clicking the right button will bring up the menu for that instrument.
This allows the user to change the settings on the instrument using the
left button of the wand.  The right Button dismisses the menu.

If you have any questions:
aej@evl.uic.edu

